What do you know about Java?
What are the supported platforms by Java Programming Language?
List any five features of Java?
Why is Java Architectural Neutral?
How Java enabled High Performance?
Why Java is considered dynamic?
What is Java Virtual Machine and how it is considered in context of Java’s platform independent feature?
List two Java IDE’s?
List some Java keywords(unlike C, C++ keywords)?
What do you mean by Object?
Define class?
What kind of variables a class can consist of?
What is a Local Variable?
What is a Instance Variable?
What is a Class Variable?
What is Singleton class?
What do you mean by Constructor?
List the three steps for creating an Object for a class?
What is the default value of byte datatype in Java?
What is the default value of float and double datatype in Java?
When a byte datatype is used?
What is a static variable?
What do you mean by Access Modifier?
What is protected access modifier?
What do you mean by synchronized Non Access Modifier?
According to Java Operator precedence, which operator is considered to be with highest precedence?
Variables used in a switch statement can be used with which datatypes?
When parseInt() method can be used?
Why is String class considered immutable?
Why is StringBuffer called mutable?
What is the difference between StringBuffer and StringBuilder class?
Which package is used for pattern matching with regular expressions?
What is finalize() method?
What is an Exception?
What do you mean by Checked Exceptions?
Explain Runtime Exceptions?
Which are the two subclasses under Exception class?
When throws keyword is used?
When throw keyword is used?
How finally used under Exception Handling?
What things should be kept in mind while creating your own exceptions in Java?
All exceptions must be a child of Throwable.
Define Inheritance?
When super keyword is used?
What is Polymorphism?
What is Abstraction?
What is Abstract class?
When Abstract methods are used?
What is Encapsulation?
What is the primary benefit of Encapsulation?
What is an Interface?
Give some features of Interface?
Define Packages in Java?
Why Packages are used?
What do you mean by Multithreaded program?
What are the two ways in which Thread can be created?
What is an applet?
An applet extend which class?
Explain garbage collection in Java?
